This is the first carbon capture system
on a commercial truck or on a commercial
train ever.
>> This is Paul Gross, the founder and CEO
of Reora. We take that captured CO2 and
we transport it to an end user who can
recycle it in an incredibly new way.
This is CO2 that we captured today from
a diesel truck engine. And then we've
got this nice tap water here that we're
going to carbonate with some of the
captured CO2. He and his team are trying
to fundamentally change the way we
approach one of our biggest climate
problems.
>> Transportation is the largest sector of
emissions in the US. 29% of all
emissions come from transport.
>> So the goal for the team at Remora is to
reduce the emissions dramatically by
going after the parts of the industry
that will be the most difficult to
electrify like long haul trucking and
freight trains. People told me that what
we were doing was impossible. But that's
exactly the type of startup I want to
work on. I wanted to create something
where I could say if I don't build this
it might not happen.
I worked with Paul and his startup
Remora closely since they went through
YC a few years ago. This summer he
invited us out to his headquarters
outside of Detroit to get a
behindthescenes look at their
operations.
>> So this was our V1 truck system. Once
the cylinder fills up on one side, we
vacuum the CO2 out and then capture on
the other side. We're storing the
captured CO2 in those three black
pressure vessels. I wanted to learn more
about how he and his team built their
hardware and what lessons he has for
other aspiring heart founders.
>> Reora is building carbon capture
technology for vehicles and we're
particularly focused on semi-truckss and
locomotives. We're retrofitting these
vehicles with technology that extracts
and purifies the CO2 from their exhaust.
And we're actually able to produce
beverage grade CO2 from these vehicles.
Here's how their device works. We take
the exhaust coming out of the tailpipe
and flow it through a cylinder filled
with these little pellets the size of
peas. The CO2 molecules in the exhaust
get stuck in the microscopic pores in
the pellets, but all the other clean
gases flow right past and out into the
air. We offload the captured CO2 as a
liquid into a big tank and then our
distributor customers come by and pick
up the CO2 in their tanker trucks and
transport it to end users like food and
beverage companies, green houses, and
water treatment. So, the system reduces
emissions and generates new revenue for
these operators.
>> How did you get started with all of
this? The insight was we have a CO2
shortage in the US. And I learned about
this in college. I started with this
question of why is there a CO2 shortage?
Why aren't, you know, breweries able to
get enough CO2 and yet we're emitting
375 million tons a year from trucks and
trains. So I started thinking about,
well, what if we retrofitted those
vehicles with carbon capture? Why don't
we extract and purify some of the CO2
from these industrial processes and sell
it to the end users that need CO2? And I
wanted to understand would this be
possible? So I built my own model to
understand how this would work. And I
started reading articles, science papers
and reaching out to experts. One of the
experts that I reached out to was uh
Christina Reynolds who had just finished
a PhD at the University of Michigan on
this very topic. And she and I talked
and we really hit it off. So we ended up
deciding to start the company together
and that was how the original kind of
founding team got together.
>> You didn't have a science background did
not study mechanical engineering or
chemical engineer engineering decided to
start a very scienceheavy company. What
would be your advice to another founder
today who want to start a similar
company faced with this situation like
don't have the domain expertise or the
science expertise but want to solve a
very hard problem. My advice would be
just start working on it and try to
learn as much as possible yourself. I
think expertise can be really valuable
and we have a lot of people with a lot
of experience on the team. But also, if
you're a founder, you don't have to be
the expert. You have to create a team of
experts. And it's much faster instead of
going out and getting a PhD to just
start learning and start working with
people who are experts. While this is a
novel approach, this isn't a new idea.
Carbon capture technology has been
around for over 100 years, and there are
several different ways it's applied. One
way is to pull CO2 straight from the
atmosphere. That's called direct air
capture, but that has real limitations.
The challenge is that the air is
extremely dilute. There's only 0.04%
CO2 molecules in the air. The problem
with processing air is that you have to
use a lot more energy to pull CO2 out.
So it ends up being far more expensive
and creating more emissions as well.
>> Then there's point source capture which
is what Paul and his team are doing.
>> We think it's a more efficient place to
start. If you have a bunch of CO2
molecules, why not capture them at the
source rather than scattering them out
into the atmosphere and then trying to
filter them back. So within point source
carbon capture, no one has ever done
carbon capture on a commercial truck,
commercial train, our systems will be
the first in the world. But people have
been working on point source carbon
capture for a long time. Traditionally,
they've used this liquid solvent
technology that can capture CO2, but has
all these downsides. It's corrosive.
It's volatile. It can degrade and
actually add carcinogens to the exhaust.
So, that's a big reason it hasn't
scaled. We're building a device that can
reduce a vehicle's emissions by at least
80%.
>> You did my com in the winter of 21,
right in the middle of CO. What did the
company have when you applied to IC?
>> We had nothing. We had no system. We
hadn't even incorporated. We just had an
idea that we told you about in the
interview. I think that was the right
time for us to apply to YC because the
way I think about YC is it's like going
to the gym with Olympians. You're on a
treadmill next to people that are
running really fast. And so what it did
is YC set the pace for us right at the
beginning. So we knew that, okay, this
is what world class looks like. You have
to move at this speed and take risks
that maybe others wouldn't. And I think
if we had done YC later in the process,
we would have already baked in a slower
speed and it would have been harder to
change at that point.
>> Though Remora started gaining momentum
in the Bay Area at YC, Paul and his
colleagues are now building the product
thousands of miles away.
>> So we are in Wixom 30 minutes outside of
Detroit. And we built the company here
because this is where the talent is. I
think you have to think about if you're
starting a company, where's the talent
density for the talent that matters for
your problem. In many cases, that's
Silicon Valley. But for us, we are
looking for mechanical engineers,
electrical engineers. We're looking for
people with experience packaging things,
experience with things getting vibrated
and shocked. That's Detroit. And it's
been the best decision that we made.
>> You have an incredible team here. It's
not that that big. How many people work
here?
>> 43 people. what you're doing here has
not really been done in this form
anywhere else. There's no other company
you can hire from like how do you
compose or put together a team to do
this uh at the speed that you're doing
right now.
>> If you're doing something that's really
interesting and hard and if you're
successful, you can make a big impact on
the planet. That's where you can get the
absolute best engineers involved. And so
I would encourage other founders to
expand their ambitions. I think a lot of
times people start the company that
seems doable, seems easy, but that's
going to be hard, too. If you're going
to spend 10 years of your life on this,
you might as well just do the thing
that's hardest, that's most interesting
because you'll get to work with the best
team. You'll get to work with the best
advisers, the best investors. It's just
so much more fun. And ironically, it may
end up being easier and it may be a
bigger outcome as well.
>> YC's next batch is now taking
applications. Got a startup in you?
Apply at y combinator.com/apply.
It's never too early and filling out the
app will level up your idea. Okay, back
to the video. One of the most ambitious
challenges for more has taken on is
fully manufacturing their device
inhouse. This is the manufacturing
space. Um so we have kind of fabrication
over here. We got a laser cutter. We've
got the welding. Um our electronics area
in the back. This is kind of standard
machining tools. And the reason we have
this is to be able to again iterate more
quickly. We have a super talented hourly
team that does all of the production of
our components here that we possibly can
so that we can then,
>> you know, put them on the truck, put
them on the train as quickly as
possible.
>> They're able to remove up to 90% of the
CO2 from the exhaust of semi-truckss.
And recently they announced they're
building a new version of their device
for freight trains. So on a truck, we're
putting a box on the back of the
semi-truck. And on a train, we're
actually building an entire separate
rail car that attaches to the exhaust
stack of the locomotive and then
processes the exhaust on board that car.
>> They even bought a 4,400 horsepower
General Electric locomotive to use as
their test pilot. And it's parked right
behind their headquarters.
>> So this is a 5,000galon fuel tank. It
stretches underneath the entire
locomotive.
>> Wow. And this is the capacity that we're
building our CO2 tank to.
>> For now, they're still in the testing
phase, but when deployed at scale, they
can have a major impact on overall
emissions from the transportation
industry. There are far fewer trains and
trucks than there are passenger cars,
but they are used so intensely. These
locomotives use billions of gallons of
diesel every year in the US. And that's
why we're focused there because that's
the biggest source of CO2 and the
biggest source of emissions.
>> What do you think will be the challenges
as you scale up production?
>> The biggest challenge is building a
product that truly is modular because if
you have to change the product every
single time for different customers, you
are not going to get there. So what we
focused on is how can we build kits that
fit on different locomotives or
different trucks that work with our same
modular car. I think the other big
challenge is how do we bring as much of
this in-house as possible. We want to be
completely vertically integrated on this
production process because it will allow
us to move much more quickly, learn from
our production process and then create a
faster iteration loop with the
engineering team to make the system more
manufacturable. So I think those are the
biggest challenges for us is getting the
engineering team on top of the
production process and then creating
that tight iteration loop. Testing out
on the open road presents obvious
challenges. So in order to rapidly test
different versions of the device, Raora
built a simulator in his warehouse
featuring a real truck engine held in a
shipping container. This is a semi-truck
engine that we took out of a truck and
put in a shipping container.
>> This allows them to model the device
performance in different road
conditions.
>> It's attached to what's called a
dynamometer, which allows us to run the
engine at different loads. So, this
could be an engine that's cruising down
the highway with a full load. It could
be going up a hill or going down a hill.
And that allows us to test with
different exhausts, temperatures,
compositions.
>> It sounds like building this diesel
engine in the loop and doing a lot of
combination of virtual simulation and
physical simulation was the thing that
kind of increased the iteration cycle.
>> Absolutely. We went from building a
specific system with all of the design
parameters baked into it to building a
flexible system that could be changed
very easily. And that has allowed us to
dramatically improve the energy
efficiency of the process, the size of
the system. We've been able to
substantially improve capture efficiency
and purity as well.
So far, Remora has raised $17 million in
venture backing and signed evaluation
agreements with major freight companies
like Ryder and Union Pacific. What does
success look like? What do you think you
can achieve?
>> I think we can make a really meaningful
dent in the entire country's carbon
emissions. This technology can scale up
to capture not just a million tons or 10
million tons. We want to capture a
billion tons a year. And I think we can
get there. This technology can be
applied in many different sectors. We
could retrofit onto generators and oil
and gas production. We could also put
this on a container ship or even put
this in larger applications like a
cement plant or a refinery or a natural
gas turbine. So, this is huge potential
and we're building it to be scalable so
that we can get to that target. There
are so many applications for this. We're
just getting started.